well howdy there internet people it's bo
young
so today we're going to talk about uh
utopias utopian philosophies
and bad kids you know those kids that
early on you're looking out you're just
like you are a bad kid
you're not gonna amount to anything no
you don't you don't actually know those
kids
but
we hear it we hear it there are some
people
who the bar is set so low for
because the expectations are low
they behave in a manner that
well it becomes a self-fulfilling
prophecy
there are kids who are told this so much
that that's the way they behave
nobody expects any different of them
it's reinforced that
this is what they're going to be this is
how it's going to turn out there's
nothing they can really do to change it
we know that's wrong we know that it
becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy
we know the kids act out we know
that it lowers self-esteem and lowers a
lot of other things
down the line we know that's the wrong
way to do it
so why do we do it with all of humanity
when somebody talks about a utopian
ideal
people will often say well that sounds
great but it'll never happen
why not because humans are selfish or
lazy or
whatever whatever the negative attribute
is
humans aren't anything we're
tool using primates
we aren't as cool as we think we are um
i i think that we're doing a disservice
because what's happened is that we
portray ourselves in this negative light
all of humanity all of society based on
anecdotal stuff
but we forget about all of the anecdotal
stuff that
shows we're positive we don't use that
as an example we use the negative stuff
and that's what goes out there
that's what showcases humanity
to ourselves and that's what we reflect
just like the kid who's always told he's
bad not going to amount to anything
yeah for some people that creates a
drive i'll prove you wrong
and good for them but for most that's
not the effect
i don't see why it wouldn't be true for
everybody
if it's true for an individual why would
it not be true
for a society made up of individuals of
course it is
if you want a utopian society you have
to expect the best from people
you have to be optimistic
there's a really cool story about lord
of the flies going around right now
i'm not going to tell the whole story um
because there's an article that actually
has a great
summary of it and it's a really good job
so we're just gonna roll with that i'll
put it down below
but generally you know we all know that
story lord of the flies school boys
stranded on an island and it goes all
wrong
because humans are bad selfish lazy
don't attend to the fire
all that stuff the thing is that
actually happened
in real life only it didn't go bad
kids survived thrived for more than a
year
i think we can learn a lot from that
story
and you know when you're reading it the
researcher the person who actually
uncovered all of this
you could tell that they get it that
this shows that humanity isn't innately
evil
i just hope that everybody else does
i hope that they get that
lord of the flies does not exist because
humanity
is like that or the flies exist
because humanity thinks humanity is like
that that's why it resonated that's why
i became a classic
because it portrayed the darker aspects
the taboo but the fact that it is taboo
kind of shows that that's not the norm
that's not the way most people are
that's the outlier most people are good
most people would be like the real life
story
i don't know that we should center our
society
our entire civilization based around the
idea that we should really take into
account those outliers
those people that aren't going to play
by the rules that aren't going to show
social responsibility and i know right
now with a whole bunch of people not
showing social responsibility it seems
like a weird time to bring this up
but i think it's the perfect time to
bring it up
because we don't expect better of them
it's so fulfilling we don't
expect better of them there's a lot of
times
when we're discussing
that ilk
that we talk about how they're not
educated that they won't get educated
and for those that are new to the
channel when i say education i do not
mean college
uh you don't need a degree to be
educated um
we hold them to a low standard
so of course they behave that way
i think it's important for everybody to
remember that we
are the example for those younger than
us
and then if we become negative they'll
become negative they'll become jaded
they'll buy into this system if we want
utopia we have to build it
step by step and we have to show that
it's possible and it is
humanity isn't innately evil
humanity just is it's what we make of it
and the more
we divide ourselves between enlightened
and those others
the more it falls apart
because it's it's much easier
to to be the selfish and lazy
you have to work to want to have social
responsibility
it's easier so
if we reinforce the idea that people are
lazy that are people are
innately evil that it's hard work
to become good
which side wins
we should probably focus more on saying
that it is possible
not that it isn't we're not there yet
but we're gonna get there
because you're gonna help us
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day